the United Nations has described the
renewed fighting between Hamas militants
and Israel as a return to Hell on Earth
for the people of Gaza hostilities
resumed this morning after negotiators
failed to extend what had become a 7-Day
ceasefire officials from the Hamas ran
Health Ministry say dozens of gazans
have been killed in the hours since
then after a week of relative calm the
sound of War has returned to
Gaza
explosions rang out Across The Enclave
dashing hopes that the truce would again
be
extended Israel said it resumed combat
after Hamas violated the terms but Hamas
which the US and the EU have designated
a terrorist organization blames Israel
for the breakdown in
talks in the southern city of Rafa
Palestinians raced to find survivors in
the
rebel
this is just a house with civilians
people who fled from another area
they're all young and
children there were similar scenes in
nearby Han
yunes where a hospital was inundated
with Wounded
civilians we were at home listening to
the news when the bombing
started the aircraft bomb destroyed our
this is the second house of ours that's
been
destroyed and this is the nature of the
Israeli enemy what more can I
say people have now started fleeing
hunis a city tens of thousands had fled
to in recent weeks seeking Refuge from
bombardments in the north Israel is
warning gazin to follow evacuation
orders for what it calls the next stage
of the
[Music]
war the IDF has been sending messages
and announcements to the people of Gaza
calling on them to evacuate from
specific areas that are being used by
Hamas for terrorist activities in the
areas of what are of course legitimate
military targets that will be destroyed
in response to the October 7th Massacre
as Hamas continues to vow another
October
7th a sign that Israel could be
expanding ing its incursion leaving
gazin with fewer places to seek
shelter DW correspondent Ben fulin
joined us earlier with more
details Gad it's been a day of Rocket
attacks from Gaza into Israel mainly in
the South also uh some pockets in the
north of the country Hamas and Islamic
Jihad uh taking responsibility for those
attacks the government here blames those
rocket attacks on the breakdown in the
ceasefire along with the hostage terms
which it says Hamas is not meeting uh
refusing to release women at the same
time Hamas says that Israel has
persistently failed to meet its terms it
has been offering dead bodies in
exchange for Palestinian Prisoners the
dead hostages it claims died in uh
Israeli air strikes we haven't been able
to confirm those deaths yet though but
it's also been a day of air strikes in
the North South and center of the Gaza
Strip that death toll Rising by the hour
according to Palestinian officials and
Hamas now more fighting means no more
release of Israeli hostages at least for
now uh what's the public opinion in
Israel on
this people here are absolutely
terrified that the fighting is underway
again they're worried of course that
their relatives who could be held
hostage in the tunnels that Hamas is
said to operate in uh which are targets
of the Israeli military that uh they
will perish in those targets uh
137 hostages we're talking about still
in the Gaza Strip according to the
Israeli government 117 men 20 women
including two children uh it's even more
horrifying of course for those above
ground the Palestinian civilians caught
in the crossfire they are believed to be
mainly in the South but the Israeli
campaign having uh now turned to the
South according to Israeli officials
those civilians are now going to have to
move to the north uh it's not safe
wherever they go according to
humanitarian bodies uh there are no
there's no Aid getting into the Gaza
Strip now that this ceasefire has fallen
apart and hospitals are near to
collapse now Qatar says negotiations to
restore a truce are still continuing in
the background also so Hamas officials
say that uh the group would be ready for
negotiations do you think a new truce is
realistic well Gart up until now we had
a 7day truce who could have believed
that I mean getting together these two
uh groups which are so different in
ideology and Method Hamas which is meant
to have tens of thousands of Fighters
but then at the same time a much bigger
Israeli Force hundreds of thousands
backed by the US whereas Hamas is backed
uh by Iran uh that is not an easy feat
and also getting the Egyptian officials
and the US to the table um Qatar is the
mediator in all of this is also home to
some hamus officials and managing to get
that 7-Day ceasefire in place uh was a
huge thing but Israel is very keen to
get back to the fighting it says that's
what's going to pressure us to release
the hostages and that was the pressure
it claims uh got those hostages out in
the first place so it's going to be very
tricky going ahead now uh Ben what is
known about the strategy of the IDF in
this next phase U as it seeks to achieve
its
goals as I mentioned the IDF the Israeli
military says it wants to uh launch a
full uh ground offensive in the South
not just the North and that's where all
the civilians are at the moment that's
the big problem we're talking about over
uh 15,000 civilian and combatant deaths
according to Palestinian Authority so
far the pressure is on from the US for
Israel to make more um uh precise
strikes uh and precise targets and
ensure that less or fewer civilians are
hurt in the crossfire but uh
and we can now talk to Juliet tumar who
speaks for unra that's the United
Nations Agency for Palestinian refugees
and she's just been to Gaza herself and
joins us now from Jordan's capital Aman
Juliet what has been your reaction to
the resumption of fighting in
Gaza when we are um Beyond worried at
this stage um for the bombardment and
air strikes that have continued across
the Gaza Strip including in the South
where we have teams on the ground and
also the lack of any deliveries today
any deliveries of humanitarian
assistance into the Gaza
trip now were humanitarian organizations
prepared for this renewed
fighting look we do have some supplies
uh in the Gaza Strip but we continue to
deliver those supplies and the supplies
run out fast like we've seen in the
early days of the war so the lack of
resumption of that humanitarian flow
which we've seen during the pause is
extremely worrying and it should resume
as soon as possible including the much
needed deliveries of
fuel now what can you tell us about the
humanitarian situation there in Gaza at
the
moment at Andra only at Andra we are
hosting more than 1 million people who
were forced to flee their their homes
and they are in Andra shelters across
the Gaza Strip I visited one of those
shelters in the South uh it had 30,000
people in it uh overcrowded people
lacked the very Basics uh and this is
before this uh um short pause began um
we could hear the sound of bombardment
people were still arriving to the
shelter when we were there even though
it's been uh almost 50 days to the war
people lost everything and they needed
everything one man was forced to sleep
on the concrete ground because Andra had
run out of mates some kids were going
around wearing their open shoes um
because when they moved to the shelter
the weather was still good when I was
there it had just rained and the
temperature has has dropped so people
are missing out on everything this is
exactly why the resumption of eight
flows into into the Gaza Strip is
absolutely critical and do you still
think that you can bring more Aid into
Gaza of course we we can we are ready to
bring Aid in uh like we have been over
the past weeks Andra is there at the
border we will pick up those uh trucks
of Aid and then we will distribute them
to people in need
like I said 1 million people in our
shelters huge and overwhelming
humanitarian needs in Gaza Aid must
continue to flow into the Gaza Strip
Julet Tuma there from unra thank you
very
much thank
you lieutenant colonel Peter Lerner
speaks for the Israeli military and he
told us earlier why Israel resumed the
fighting Hamas chose to violate the
ceasefire when they chose not to release
the women and children um this is a very
clear
violation um it was absolutely Apparent
from day one that it was only a matter
of time until Hamas decides not to
transfer the hostages we've been saying
since the 7th of October since that
ruthless day uh uh merciless day against
of attacks against Israeli people that
there are two goals for this war first
of all to bring home all of the hostages
every last one of them
and second of all to destroy and
dismantle Hamas as a governing Authority
in the Gaza
Strip now he TB is West Bank and Gaza
country director for care that's an NGO
fighting poverty and social injustice
she joins us from Raa in the occupied
West Bank welcome to DW um could we
start please with your reaction to the
end of this
truce I uh I don't have even honestly
some words to describe how we all feel
as humanitarian actors as human beings
we had the chance to take a short period
of breath but now we are holding it back
unfortunately everyone is really afraid
with the fact that what happened in the
North might be expand extended to the
South uh where already people were
overcrowded now the new platforms of
communicating with people asking them to
further evacu
um um makes Gaza uh or the south of Gaza
divided into small blocks and this will
mean that people are going to be over
and overcrowded and this will H H make
what the situation that is already
announced as catastrophic by the UN
agencies to be even more catastrophic
with high potential of famine and wider
spread of diseases at a scary scale that
we are so uh um worried about as
humanitarian organizations right so are
you still able to operate are you still
able to bring in and distribute
Aid my dear Phil we used every second
every moment of the last seven days and
we were able to distribute water we were
able to distribute hygiene kits we
reached to the people of course limited
numbers but now with the truth being
ended with the sides of shelling that is
taking place and the geog graphic covers
covery of of the different places where
the the air strikes are are operating we
cannot we cannot risk the very scarse
the very of course the the lives of our
humanitarian colleagues and also the
very scarse uh um humanitarian uh
Necessities that we have very limited
ones that we have so we stopped our
operations in the current uh understood
so you you've you stopped your operation
you've withdrawn your people uh from
from the Terr have
you no no no they are in the South my
colleagues are are most of the all of
the colleagues from from Care
International in Gaza are from Gaza all
of them are in the South they are still
putting they are they are willing to
help and to continue supporting the
people even even in those very very hard
and harsh moments of course we also
operate through our partners who are
also willing to support the people
during the truth and even some sometimes
we are ask them them we are asking them
not to continue be Beyond uh Beyond now
in the in the current very risky uh
moment so we ask them to stop but all of
them are in the South ready to jump to
contribute to the help okay let's hope
that there is then another pause in
fighting for now though thank you so
much for joining us aiba T from
care let's see if we can pull all this
together with DW's Middle East analyst
shaie rzan so welcome back to the studio
sh we'll start with the ceasefire why do
you think this this uh this latest
extension failed well we've seen in the
last 24 hours an erosion of the trust
the very little trust that was there um
so far between Hamas and Israel um
already last the night before I mean the
24 hours before this the last release
were very contentious a lot of back and
forth between de sides on what exactly
does the list include because Hamas was
suggesting maybe to release some some
bodies of dead victims Israelis and
Israel was pushing back against that
claiming the priorities first to release
live hostages um and and so this back
and forth was was clear that both Sid
are toughening up their positions and
then yesterday also we saw an attack in
Jerusalem the Israeli Capital by Hamas
militants in a uh in a bus stop uh
leading to the death of three Israelis
and several more uh severely wounded
it's very hard for Netanyahu you know to
be talking truce and uh with Hamas um in
Gaza but at the same time being you know
the by the very same organization uh not
seeming Tough Enough when other attacks
happen in Israel so that was putting a
lot of pressure on the Israeli
government it's it's It's Tricky for for
those of us who who don't follow these
matters uh clearly so we have a truce
but we know that within the the the
truce even as it was operating for the
seven days there were skirmishes and
there was there was um uh um uh rocket
fire
so where how is the line drawn between
those sort of skirmishes and okay this
is enough that's that's a great question
nobody really know when do you go past
the line you know when you cross it uh
we have seen trickling of little bit of
exchange back back and forth but the
general frame was framework worked
because it was there was a belief that
both sides need it Hamas needs more time
needs more Aid coming into Gaza needs
fuel need humanitarian support and
Israel wanted to bring as many hostages
home as possible you know and there's no
no better day way than the deal um
however both sides we've been seeing in
rhetorics and in statements in the last
24 hours were eager to show that they
are not afraid of resuming the fire
whenever needed this is also part of the
of the game of this back and forth
between the sides some of it has
manipulation or psychological warfare
elements some of it is the genuine
hostility between the sides um we still
see a lot of pressure Qatar is still
hoping to be able to resume you know
some sort of Truth before we see
escalation it goes out of hand um it's
the next couple of hours will be quite
crucial for that uh it's too soon to see
if that is even
possible we just heard from uh Peter
larner from the from the the IDF and and
he repeated the the Israeli line that
this is because not only did Hamas um uh
break the ceasefire but they will not
release the the women and children as we
as um uh as we have insisted so we've
dealt with the breaking of the ceasefire
this notion of women and children having
to come out
first is that Bec is that a deal that
was
agreed and that Hamas and that Israel
believes that Hamas has violated or is
has that been part of the negotiation
and this is a term that Israel wants but
Hamas has said no to well no the the
framework that was established over
eight years eight days ago was about the
children and their mothers you know
women and children because so men were
always out of correct because we also
need to remember part of the truth was
also release of Israeli prison
Palestinians prisoners held in Israel
and that was also under the same
category minors and women so because the
way Israel sees it the way Hamas sees it
whenever you start talking about men
elderly men on you know hostages in Gaza
you would have to also discuss elderly
men prisoners held in Israel that would
be harder for Israel to release because
the men that are kept in Israeli prisons
Palestinians on are usually those who
have been convicted of Terror attacks
and some heavy crimes unlike what we've
seen so far in release of prisoners uh
uh so far so the the minute you change
the the the consistency of the the the
kind of people you release the category
of people being released you got to open
the deal and renegotiate all the terms
and that's where both sides are too far
from each other this is where the
distrust is too big and this is we've
seen this collapsing okay shie thank you
for thank you for walking through us
that so clearly sh ranus is DW's Middle
East
analyst